src/com/matthewddiaz/datastructures/linkedList/README.md, before:

# Fundamental Data Structures

## Linked List
LinkedList is a data structure in which elements are arranged in a linear order, determined by a pointer. 
Singley LinkedLists are usually implemented with only having 1 pointer the head.
However this causes appendElement(T key) to operate in Θ(n)
  
### [Linked List](https://github.com/matthewddiaz/Data-Structures/blob/master/src/com/matthewddiaz/datastructures/linkedList/LinkedList.java)
LinkedList.java is implemented using two pointers a head and tail to improve the performance of some operations.

Linked List supports the following operations:

1) **void appendElement(T key)** - inserts an key at the end (tail) of the LinkedList.
    
    **Time Complexity:** Θ(1)

2) **void prependElement(T key)** - inserts an key at the front (head) of the LinkedList.
   **Time Complexity:** Θ(1)
   
3) **boolean containsElement(T key)** - returns true if LinkedList contains the key.
   
   **Time Complexity:** Θ(n)

4) **boolean removeElement(T key)** - removes key and returns true if LinkedList contains the key; 
if the key is not in the LinkedList returns false.
   
   **Time Complexity:** Θ(n)

**Test class:** [LinkedListTest](https://github.com/matthewddiaz/Data-Structures/blob/master/test/com/matthewddiaz/datastructures/linkedList/LinkedListTest.java)

Commit message:

Updated Linked List ReadMe to explain difference between singly and doubly linked list

src/com/matthewddiaz/datastructures/linkedList/README.md, after:

# Fundamental Data Structures

## Linked List
LinkedList is a data structure in which elements are arranged in a linear order, determined by a pointer. 
LinkedLists are usually implemented with only having 1 pointer the head (points to the first node in the linked list).
However this causes appendElement(T key) to operate in Θ(n), to counter that problem this implementation includes 
a tail pointer that points to the last node in the linked list.

### Two Main types of Linked Lists

#### 1. Singly Linked List
The singly linked list contains 1 pointer called head to the first Node in linked list. Each Node in the linked list contains 
a T member attribute and 1 pointer that points to the next Node in the linked list.
 
#### 2. Doubly Linked List
The doubly linked list is the same as a singly linked list except that each Node in the linked list contains an additional
pointer called previous which points to the previous Node in the linked list. That is each Node has two pointers a next and
a previous.

### [Linked List](https://github.com/matthewddiaz/Data-Structures/blob/master/src/com/matthewddiaz/datastructures/linkedList/LinkedList.java)
LinkedList.java is implemented using two pointers a head and tail to improve the performance of some operations.

Linked List supports the following operations:

1) **void appendElement(T key)** - inserts an key at the end (tail) of the LinkedList.
    
    **Time Complexity:** Θ(1)

2) **void prependElement(T key)** - inserts an key at the front (head) of the LinkedList.
   **Time Complexity:** Θ(1)
   
3) **boolean containsElement(T key)** - returns true if LinkedList contains the key.
   
   **Time Complexity:** Θ(n)

4) **boolean removeElement(T key)** - removes key and returns true if LinkedList contains the key; 
if the key is not in the LinkedList returns false.
   
   **Time Complexity:** Θ(n)

**Test class:** [LinkedListTest](https://github.com/matthewddiaz/Data-Structures/blob/master/test/com/matthewddiaz/datastructures/linkedList/LinkedListTest.java)
